Developer Call November 12, 2020
--------------------------------

Scribbler: `Richard Edgar <https://github.com/riedgar-ms>`_

Attendees:

- `Michael Amoako <https://github.com/michaelamoako>`_
- `Miro Dudik <https://github.com/MiroDudik>`_
- `Richard Edgar <https://github.com/riedgar-ms>`_
- `Adrin Jalali <https://github.com/adrinjalali>`_
- `Michael Madaio  <https://github.com/mmadaio>`_
- `Diondra Peck <https://github.com/diondrapeck>`_
- Alex Quach
- `Hilde Weerts <https://github.com/hildeweerts>`_
- `Viola Zhong <https://github.com/violazhong>`_

Agenda
======

v0.5.0 Release
--------------

The v0.5.0 release was finally sent to PyPI earlier this week.
This has the new metrics API, various other enhancements and deprecates
the widget. Our documentation should now match the version on PyPI
as well.

Governance
----------

Miro summarised a governance proposal based on those for InterpretML.
Basically, there would be a steering committee, and maintainers for
the various projects which make up Fairlearn.
This lead to a lively discussion, with particular concerns being raised
by Adrin and Hilde.

Hilde was concerned the the proposal still looked very Microsoft
dominated, and that there would be little change in how things worked.
Would the community at least be asked to nominate people to the
steering committee?

Adrin brought perspectives from SciKit-Learn. Some key points were:

- The technical committee for SciKit-Learn is a subset of the
  maintainers. Adrin feels that this helps build community
- Although the technical committee formally owns the trademarks etc.
  it is subordinate to the maintainers

Adrin also raised the point that the process for changing the governance
documents needs to be clear - although it may mechanically be a
pull request, the bar is going to be higher.
It was also unclear how the concepts discussed would map onto the
facilities provided by GitHub.

Miro is going to work on formal governance documents, and put out a PR.
Feedback is *really* encouraged for this - whether as PR comments, or
emailing Miro directly.