Developer call July 9, 2020
---------------------------

These are collaborative notes.

Attendees:

- `Miro Dudik <https://github.com/MiroDudik>`_
- `Richard Edgar <https://github.com/riedgar-ms>`_
- `Adrin Jalali <https://github.com/adrinjalali>`_
- `Roman Lutz <https://github.com/romanlutz>`_
- `Vanessa Milan <https://www.microsoft.com/en-us/research/people/vmilan/>`_
- `Andreas Mueller <https://github.com/amueller>`_
- `Mehrnoosh Sameki <https://github.com/mesameki>`_
- `Mark Soper <https://github.com/marksoper>`_
- `Hanna Wallach <https://www.microsoft.com/en-us/research/people/wallach/>`_
- `Hilde Weerts <https://github.com/hildeweerts>`_


Agenda:

- We now have project boards that show what tasks are currently in progress.
  This should indicate to contributors whether a task can be picked up by
  them. We're looking for feedback on whether this is clear or not, and will
  adjust the process accordingly.
  `[GitHub Projects] <https://github.com/fairlearn/fairlearn/projects>`_
  Additionally the GitHub Issues marked with `help-wanted` have been cleaned
  up to make sure they're up to date. 
- We're still doing the weekly deep dives every Thursday (other than 2nd every
  month) to capture the sociotechnical context of applications and hopefully
  produce one or more appropriate example notebooks. If you want to join
  just send a message to Roman on
  `Gitter <https://gitter.im/fairlearn/community>`_ 
- Metrics proposal - Miro to follow up based on last week's conversation
  with Hilde, Adrin, Roman, Richard
- UX: goal to enable ecosystem of visualizations specific for application
  context, currently not as well documented as the rest of the code
- Governance:

    - short-term: MSFT supported project
    - long-term: hand-off to neutral entity (including trademark)
    - waiting might discourage contributions, so we'll aim at getting this
      done sooner rather than later. Microsoft folks will follow up with
      legal.

- Outreach: So far the philosophy was to wait for project to stablize before
  major outreach efforts. Most of the participants felt like it's time to do
  more on this (while ensuring we
  `speak about fairness in the right way <https://fairlearn.github.io/contributor_guide/how_to_talk_about_fairness.html>`_).
  
  - It's important to be clear on project values before outreach. For that
    reason we'll double down on efforts for the mission/roadmap PR.
    How we speak about fairness matters. What are cases where this is the
    appropriate tool, what are cases where it's not? We need to capture that.
  - Roman signed up for scipy sprints this weekend. It's unclear whether we're
    too late.
