v0.9.0
======

* Added Credit Loan Decisions example notebook.
* Bugfix for :meth:`~fairlearn.metrics.selection_rate` to handle :code:`TypeError` when input is
  scalar.
* Added support for pickling classes in :mod:`fairlearn.reductions`.
* Bugfix for :code:`sklearn.preprocessing.OneHotEncoder` in :mod:`fairlearn.adversarial` to ensure
  compatibility with scikit-learn 1.2.
* Set default value of :code:`parser` of :code:`sklearn.datasets.fetch_openml` in
  :mod:`fairlearn.datasets` to :code:`liac-arff` to match behavior before scikit-learn 1.2.
* Replaced calculations in :mod:`fairlearn.reductions` by matrix multiplication which can lead to
  substantial speed-ups for :class:`~fairlearn.reductions.ExponentiatedGradient` for simple
  estimators like logistic regression.
* Added :code:`as_frame` (with default :code:`True`) argument to
  :meth:`~fairlearn.datasets.fetch_diabetes_hospital`.
* Changed :code:`as_frame` default to :code:`True` for all remaining datasets.
* Changed :class:`~fairlearn.metrics.MetricFrame` so that all results (including aggregations) are
  computed in the constructor and then cached.
* Bugfix for :mod:`fairlearn.adversarial` that changes the loss function :code:`NLLLoss` to
  :code:`CrossEntropyLoss`.
* Various documentation tweaks and enhancements, including restructuring of the user guide and
  breaking out information in the API reference to separate pages.
* Removed `customplots` extra. To use our plotting capabilities, please install `matplotlib`
  if it is not already part of your environment.
